What is a ETL?
    ETL, which stands for “extract, transform, load,” are the three processes that, in combination, move data from one database, multiple databases, or other sources to a unified repository—typically a data warehouse.

What is a ELT?
    ELT copies or exports the data from the source locations, but instead of moving it to a staging area for transformation, it loads the raw data directly to the target data store, where it can be transformed as needed. ELT does not transform any data in transit. However, the order of steps is not the only difference.

List out various tools using in ETL tools.
    Apache Spark, Oracle Data Integrator (ODI), SAS Data Integration Studio,CloverETL,AWS Glue,Apache Airflow,Apache Kafka,Snowflake Data Cloud.

what is datalake?
    data lake is a centralized repository designed to store, process, and secure large amounts of structured, semistructured, and unstructured data. It can store data in its native format and process any variety of it, ignoring size limits.

what is data warehouse?
    A data warehouse is a type of data management system that is designed to enable and support business intelligence (BI) activities, especially analytics. Data warehouses are solely intended to perform queries and analysis and often contain large amounts of historical data.


Oltp vs olap
    Online analytical processing (OLAP) and online transaction processing (OLTP) are two different data processing systems designed for different purposes. OLAP is optimized for complex data analysis and reporting, while OLTP is optimized for transactional processing and real-time updates.

What are all the various analytical tools that can be connected with Datawarehouse?
    Amazon Redshift. Redshift ,Microsoft Azure,Azure ,Google BigQuery,
Snowflake,Amazon DynamoDB,PostgreSQL.


Explain the different stages used in ETL
    The ETL process encompasses data extraction, transformation, and loading. While the abbreviation implies a neat, three-step process – extract, transform, load – this simple definition doesn't capture: The transportation of data. The overlap between each of these stages.

Explain 3 use cases for NOSQL	
    NoSQL comes with many benefits, including: The choice of several database types—key-value, document, tabular (or wide column), graph, and multi-model —so you can find the best fit for your data. The flexibility to easily store and access a wide variety of data types together, without upfront planning.

What are all the characteristics of a nosql?
    Flexible schemas.
    Horizontal scaling.
    Fast queries due to the data model.
    Ease of use for developers.


What are all the tools used to analyse nosql?
    1. MongoDB Compass · 2. Panoply (SQL/NoSQL) · 3. Knowi (NoSQL) · 4. Izenda (SQL/NoSQL) · 5. FineReport











